hello everybody my name is J I'm one of
the expert IELTS teachers teaching from
his mother's lounge room right now I
hope you're all well out in the world
and everything is good despite all the
craziness that's going on what we're
going to do in this little lesson is an
IELTS reading task which is true false
not given and I'm actually going to base
it on some information from the official
IELTS website about coronavirus so it
will teach you to hopefully read deeply
anyway let's have a look at the
questions what's going to happen is
you're going to see a text with three
questions and you'll have three minutes
to try to answer them now please don't
just skip through to the answers
actually do your best to try to answer
them now and you might want to pop your
answers into the comments below and then
I'm going to go through the answers in
detail with you okay good luck
okie dokie so IELTS reading true false
not given all right what I want you to
do is to read that text very carefully
then if you look below the text you'll
see one two three and you'll see
statements what you need to do is ask
yourself does the statement say the same
thing as the text if it does then you're
right true if it contradicts what's
written in the text
you're right false and if there's just
not enough information to tell like you
need to sort of think well I don't
really know that then you're right not
given okay your three minutes starts now
you
okie-dokie how did you go let's take a
look at the first question here question
one is well the statement says
candidates choose to state their health
status in writing now that's important
word there is choose candidates choose
to state their health status in writing
the important part of the text says test
takers or candidates ask you to sign a
health declaration in other words the
test IELTS will ask candidates to Hut to
sign a health declaration asked to sign
a health declaration it doesn't say
force okay just says ask and the
statement says candidates choose to
state their health status in writing and
sign and status in writing so the answer
to that one is in fact true candidates
choose to state their health status in
writing because in nowhere in the text
does it say that they're they're forced
to do it or they must do it or anything
like that that was a really tricky one
there hopefully that made you think okay
before we continue on to question number
two make sure you subscribe if you're
watching this on youtube okay number two
candidates must wear face masks during
the test well it says here test takers
that's the synonym for candidates test
takers and staff may wear a mask what's
the difference between May and must well
there's a big difference there and I
would say that's a direct contradiction
may wear a mask versus must wear a mask
is a contradiction therefore therefore
rather the answer is going to be false
number two is false let's check out
number three here number three the
computer-based test has been divided
into sections well this is kind of
ambiguous here okay
the part of the text that's important
says petitions in computer-based so a
computer delivered IELTS test rooms now
number three is ambiguous
doesn't say anything about rooms there
it says the computer-based test has been
divided into sections the emphasis being
on the tests that the test is divided
into sections now there's just actually
no information on that it's not
contradictory to that part of the text
that says that the IELTS test rooms have
been partitioned or divided into
sections and because there's just no
information on it we can't say so we
have to just say not given okey-dokey if
you need help with your IELTS test and
you are in lockdown now is the chance
well now is the time rather to improve
your skills on e to school comm and
improve your strategies and your test
taking skills on e to language comm both
of which you can sign up for free both
of which - you can sign up for free by
the way don't forget to subscribe to the
YouTube channel if you're watching this
on YouTube and feel free to leave a
lovely comment below
cool thanks very much for watching again
I hope you're all safe and well do check
out e to language comm of course if you
want to do some IELTS prepping the
meantime and yep stay strong see you
soon
[Music]
you